>> Mike North: So over the past couple of
years, we've been really trying to push up
the percentage of the web if
that is served over HTTPS.
We're at about 56% and
moving forward nicely.
This big uptick we're seeing in,
I guess, it's not really a clear uptick,
but starting from about
November of 2016 upwards.
That's impacted a lot by Let's Encrypt,
which is an attempt to make
the first free certificate authority
where you could automatically go through
the process of getting one of these.
And it wasn't about paying $100 for
three years, and
now you have the certificate you need.
Everyone should have access to this.
It's in everyone's interests to make
this something that everyone can add to,
even their blogs and things like that.
Everything should be HTTPS.
So in terms of how we got here,
in the 90s, HTTP was invented.
93, there was something called S-HTTP.
That was the first secure HTTP protocol,
and that was from Secure Mosaic.
That was back when you had to download
the secure version of Mosaic, a separate
program, then the regular Mosaic,
which was for your general Internet use.
In 94, Netscape invented and implemented
SSL, HTTPS was the first thing to use SSL.
SSL stands for secure socket layer.
And what that means,
just think that it is sort of a lower
level idea than HTTPS, right?
It doesn't care about what
protocol you're using,
like whether this is something called
a request that has a head and a body.
It involves something in a lower layer,
at the socket layer, rather,
which is why we can use it for things like
WebSockets as well, which are not HTTP.
In 99, we got our first version of TLS,
which also is also known as SSL 3.1.
It is more accurate now to
refer to this as TLS, right?
And 2008, we got the current
version that we're using now, and
it is regarded to be
the safe version to use.
So we're gonna dive a little
bit into cryptography.
I hope I made this reasonably accessible.
I want you to understand at the end of
this what role the certificate plays.
What role symmetric and
asymmetric encryption plays,
we'll define those terms.
So you know when we start working with
OpenSSL, which is what we're about to do
to generate a certificate safely, you will
not just look at this as a bunch of files.
You'll understand each piece and
the point of each piece.